viii cannuca.

Incorporated in our Chronicle isan episode,¹ headed,

“ De Henrico de Essexia‚’' being an account of the duel
between Henry de Essex and Robert de Montford. The
heading is our author’s; but the narrative is expressed to
be added by a monk who accompanied the Abbot of St.
Edmund's to Reading, and received the relation from
Henry de Essex himself, then in the cloistcr of the Abbey
of Reading. This episode has certain pretensions to clas-
sical Latin, and forms a contrast to the easy colloquial
style of Jocelin.

At the end of the Chronicle, which breaks off abruptly
some years before the death of Abbot Samson, will also
be found an evidence of the lands held of St. Edmund's
granted to the family of Cokefeld. lhis brief document
purports to be written² by William de Dice (Diss), then
one of Abbot Samson's chaplainS‚ who had access to the
Cokefeld charters, and is in the nature of an appendix to
our Chronicle, being obviously added in proof of the
right of the monastery to certain lands claimed by Tho-
mas de Burgh as belonging to Nesta de Cokefeld, after-
ward his wife, the subject of a suit determincd against
the convent which is spoken of in our Chronicle.

Spelman, Reyner, Battely and othere, referring to our
author, cite from a MS. in the Cotton Collection, Vitellius

¹ Chron. p. 50. ¹ Ibid. p. 102.

 

